Connections and variables - new draft (#2219)
astronomer/docs: astro/import-export-connections-variables.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Import and export connections and variables'
title: 'Import and export connections and variables'
id: import-export-connections-variables
description: "Learn how to import and export Airflow objects between Airflow environments"
---

After you create connections and variables in an Airflow environment, you might want to move export and import them between environments for any of the following reasons:

- You are launching a production Airflow environment on Astro based on a locally running Airflow environment.
- You need to replicate a production Airflow environment on your local machine.
- Your team is migrating old Airflow environments to a new location.

Based on the [management strategy for your connections and variables](manage-connections-variables.md), their storage location will vary. Use this document to learn how to export and import them from one environment to another. 

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
sidebar_label: 'Import and export connections and variables'
title: 'Import and export connections and variables'
id: import-export-connections-variables
description: "Learn how to import and export Airflow objects between Airflow environments"
---

After you create connections and variables in an Airflow environment, you might want to move export and import them between environments for any of the following reasons:

- You are launching a production Airflow environment on Astro based on a locally running Airflow environment.
- You need to replicate a production Airflow environment on your local machine.
- Your team is migrating old Airflow environments to a new location.

> Use this document to learn how to export and import environment variables based on different connection and variable [storage and management strategies](manage-connections-variables.md). 

Author: ```suggestion
Based on your management strategy, the storage location for your Airflow objects will vary and hence the methods to import and export will vary as well. Use this document to learn how to export and import environment variables based on different connection and variable [storage and management strategies](manage-connections-variables.md). 
```

> Based on your management strategy, the storage location for your Airflow objects will vary and hence the methods to import and export will vary as well. [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/overview) can be used to export/import your Airflow objects from/to your local Airflow or Astro Deployment for all management strategies except Secrets Backend. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The import/ export methods available to you are defined by your [connection and variables management strategy](manage-connections-variables.md).
```

> Use this document to understand these methods and also how to use simple Astro CLI commands to import or export.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this document to understand each import/export method and which strategies they can be used with.
```

- You want to migrate your secrets backend to a different account.
- You want to use your secrets as a reference for another Deployment and then customize it. Astronomer recommends maintaining separate `development` and `production` secrets backend.
- You want to migrate to a different cloud provider.

Refer to your secrets backend provider's documentation to learn how to manage resources using API calls:

- Google secret manager's [Python SDK](https://cloud.google.com/secret-manager/docs/reference/libraries#client-libraries-install-python) and [REST API](https://cloud.google.com/secret-manager/docs/reference/rest) reference.
- AWS secret manager's [Python SDK](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/services/secretsmanager.html) and [other SDKs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/apireference/Welcome.html).
- Azure key vault's [SDK and API](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/general/developers-guide#apis-and-sdks-for-key-vault-management) reference.
- Hashicorp Vault's [Python SDK](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/get-started/developer-qs#step-2-install-a-client-library)

> To set up a secrets backend on Astro, see [configure secrets backend](secrets-backend).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up a secrets backend on Astro, see [configure secrets backend](secrets-backend.md).
```
